.\" meli - meli.7
.\"
.\" Copyright 2017-2022 Manos Pitsidianakis
.\"
.\" This file is part of meli.
.\"
.\" meli is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" meli is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with meli. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\".de Hr
.\".Bd -literal -offset center
.\"╌╍─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╍╌
.\".Ed
.\"..
.de Shortcut
.Sm
.Aq \\$1
\ 
.Po
.Em shortcuts.\\$2\&. Ns
.Em \\$3
.Pc
.Sm
..
.de ShortcutPeriod
.Aq \\$1
.Po
.Em shortcuts.\\$2\&. Ns
.Em \\$3
.Pc Ns
..
.de Command
.Bd -offset 1n -ragged
.Cm \\$*
.Ed
..
.Dd November 11, 2022
.Dt MELI 7
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm meli
.Nd Tutorial for the meli terminal e-mail client
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a terminal mail client aiming for extensive and user-frendly configurability.
.Bd -literal -offset center
     ^^      .-=-=-=-.  ^^
 ^^        (`-=-=-=-=-`)         ^^
         (`-=-=-=-=-=-=-`)  ^^         ^^
   ^^   (`-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-`)   ^^
       ( `-=-=-=-(@)-=-=-` )      ^^
       (`-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-`)  ^^
       (`-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-`)          ^^
       (`-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-`)
^^     (`-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-`)  ^^
   ^^   (`-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-`)          ^^
         (`-=-=-=-=-=-=-`)  ^^
  ^^       (`-=-=-=-=-`)
            `-=-=-=-=-`          ^^
.Ed
.Sh INTRODUCTION
To quit
.Nm
press
.Shortcut q general quit
at any time.
When launched for the first time,
.Nm
will search for its configuration directory,
.Pa $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/meli/ Ns
\&.
If it doesn't exist, you will be asked if you want to create one and presented with a sample configuration file
.Pq Pa $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/meli/config.toml
that includes the basic settings required for setting up accounts allowing you to copy and edit right away.
See
.Xr meli.conf 5
for the available configuration options.
.Pp
At any time, you may press
.Shortcut \&? general toggle_help
for a searchable list of all available actions and shortcuts, along with every possible setting and command that your version supports.
.Pp
Each time a shortcut is mentioned in this document, you will find a parenthesis next to it with the name of the shortcut setting along with its section in the configuration settings so that you can modify it if you wish.
.Pp
For example, to set the
.Em toggle_help
shortcut mentioned in the previous paragraph, add the following to your configuration:
.Bd -literal -offset center
[shortcuts]
general.toggle_help = 'F1'
.Ed
.sp
Or alternatively:
.Bd -literal -offset center
[shortcuts.general]
toggle_help = 'F1'
.Ed
.Pp
To go to the next tab on the right, press
.ShortcutPeriod T general next_tab
\&.
.Sh INTERACTING WITH Nm
You will be interacting with
.Nm
in four primary ways:
.Bl -column
.It 1.
keyboard shortcuts in
.Sy NORMAL
mode.
.It 2.
commands with arguments in
.Sy COMMAND
mode.
.It 3.
regular text input in text input widgets in
.Sy INSERT
mode.
.It 4.
any kind of input that gets passed directly into an embedded terminal in
.Sy EMBED
mode.
.El
.Sh MODES
.Nm
is a modal application, just like
.Xr vi 1 Ns
\&.
This means that pressing the same keys in different modes would yield different results.
This allows you to separate how the input is interpreted without the need to focus your input with a mouse.
.Bl -tag -width 8n
.It NORMAL
This is the default mode of
.Nm Ns
\&.
All keyboard shortcuts work in this mode.
.It COMMAND
Commands are issued in
.Sy COMMAND
mode, by default started with
.Shortcut \&: general enter_command_mode
and exited with
.Aq Esc
key.
.It EMBED
This is the mode of the embed terminal emulator.
To exit an embedded application, issue
.Aq Ctrl-C
to kill it or
.Aq Ctrl-Z
to stop the program and follow the instructions on
.Nm
to exit.
.It INSERT
This mode is entered when pressing
.Aq Enter
on a cursor selected text input field, and it captures all input as text input.
It is exited with the
.Aq Esc
key.
.El
.Sh ACTIVE SHORTCUTS POPUP
By pressing
.Shortcut \&? general toggle_help
at any time, the shortcuts popup display status gets toggled.
You can find all valid shortcuts for the current UI state you are in.
.Bd -literal -offset center
┌─shortcuts──Press ? to close────────────────────────────────┐
│                                                           ▀│
│  use COMMAND "search" to find shortcuts                   █│
│  Use Up, Down, Left, Right to scroll.                     █│
│                                                           █│
│  pager                                                    █│
│                                                           █│
│       PageDown  page_down                                 █│
│         PageUp  page_up                                    │
│              j  scroll_down                                │
│              k  scroll_up                                  │
│                                                            │
│  view mail                                                 │
│                                                            │
│              c  add_addresses_to_contacts                  │
│              e  edit                                       │
│              u  toggle_url_mode                            │
│              a  open_attachment                            │
│              m  open_mailcap                               │
│              R  reply                                      │
│            C-r  reply_to_author                            │
│            C-g  reply_to_all                               │
│            C-f  forward                                    │
│            M-r  view_raw_source                            │
│              h  toggle_expand_headers                     ▄│
└────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
.Ed
.Bd -ragged -offset 3n
.Em Shows\ active\ shortcuts\ in\ order\ of\ the\ widget\ hierarchy\&.
.Ed
.Sh MAIN VIEW
.Bd -literal -offset center
 ┌───────────────────────┐
 ├────┼──────────────────┤
 │___ │  ___________     │
 │ _  │ _______________  │
 │ _  │__________________│
 │ _  │      ___________ │
 │    │  _____           │
 │    │                  │
 └────┴──────────────────┘
.Ed
.Bd -ragged -offset 3n
.Em The\ main\ view's\ layout\&.
.Ed
.sp
This is the view you will spend more time with in
.Nm Ns
\&.
.Pp
Press
.Shortcut ` listing toggle_menu_visibility
to toggle the sidebars visibility.
.Pp
Press
.Shortcut Left listing focus_right
to switch focus on the sidebar menu.
Press
.Shortcut Right listing focus_left
to switch focus on the e-mail list.
.Pp
On the e-mail list, press
.Shortcut k listing scroll_up
to scroll up, and
.Shortcut j listing scroll_down
to scroll down.
Press
.Shortcut Enter listing open_entry
to open an e-mail entry and
.Shortcut i listing exit_entry
to exit it.
.Bd -ragged
.Sy The sidebar\&.
.Ed
.Bd -literal -offset center
┌─────────────┉┉┉┉┉✂
│ mail▐  contact li✂
│personal account  ✂
│ 0  INBOX         ✂
│ 1   ┣━Sent       ✂
│ 2   ┣━Lists      ✂
│ 3   ┃ ┣━meli-dev ✂
│ 4   ┃ ┗━meli     ✂
│ 5   ┣━Drafts     ✂
│ 6   ┣━Trash      ✂
│ 7   ┗━foobar     ✂
┇ 8  Trash         ✂
 ✂ ✂ ✂ ✂ ✂ ✂ ✂ ✂ ✂ ✂
.Ed
.sp
Press
.Shortcut k listing scroll_up
to scroll up, and
.Shortcut j listing scroll_down
to scroll down.
.Pp
Press
.Shortcut Enter listing open_mailbox
to open an entry (either a mailbox or an account name).
Entering an account name will show you a page with details about the account and its network connection, depending on the backend.
.Pp
While focused in the sidebar, you can
.Dq collapse
a mailbox tree, if it has children, and you can open it with
.ShortcutPeriod Space listing toggle_mailbox_collapse
\&.
You can have mailbox trees collapsed on startup by default by setting a mailbox's
.Ic collapsed
setting to
.Em true Ns
\&.
See
.Xr meli.conf 5 section MAILBOXES
for details.
.Pp
You can increase the sidebar's width with
.Shortcut Ctrl-p listing increase_sidebar
and decrease with
.ShortcutPeriod Ctrl-o listing decrease_sidebar
\&.
.Bd -ragged
.Sy The status bar.
.Ed
.Bd -literal -offset center
┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────┈┈
│NORMAL | Mailbox: Inbox, Messages: 25772, New: 3006
└────────────────────────────────────────────────────┈┈
.Ed
.Pp
The status bar shows which mode you are, and the status message of the current view.
In the pictured example, it shows the status of a mailbox called
.Dq Inbox
with lots of e-mails.
.Bd -ragged
.Sy The number modifier buffer.
.Ed
.Bd -literal -offset center
 ┈┈────────────┐
            12 │
 ┈┈────────────┘
.Ed
.Pp
Some commands may accept a number modifier.
.Tg number-modifier
For example, scroll down commands can receive a multiplier
.Em n
to scroll down
.Em n
entries.
Another use of the number buffer is opening URLs inside the pager.
See
.Sx PAGER
for an explanation of interacting with URLs in e-mails.
.Pp
Pressing numbers in
.Sy NORMAL
mode will populate this buffer.
To erase it, press the
.Aq Esc
key.
.Sh MAIL LIST
There are four different list styles:
.Bl -hyphen -compact
.It
.Qq plain
which shows one line per e-mail.
.It
.Qq threaded
which shows a threaded view with drawn tree structure.
.It
.Qq compact
which shows one line per thread which can include multiple e-mails.
.It
.Qq conversations
which shows more than one line per thread which can include multiple e-mails with more details about the thread.
.El
.Bd -ragged
.Sy Plain view\&.
.Ed
.Bd -literal -offset center
│42     Fri, 02 Sep 2022 19:51  xxxxxxxxxxxxx <  [PATCH 3/8] │
│43     Fri, 02 Sep 2022 19:51  xxxxxxxxxxxxx <  [PATCH 2/8] │
│44     Fri, 02 Sep 2022 19:51  xxxxxxxxxxxxx <  [PATCH 1/8] │
|45     Fri, 02 Sep 2022 19:51  xxxxxxxxxxxxx <  [PATCH 0/8] |
│46     Fri, 02 Sep 2022 18:18  xxxxxxxx <xxxxx  Re: [PATCH 3│
.Ed
.Bd -ragged
.Sy Threaded view\&.
.Ed
.Bd -literal -offset center
│12     9 hours ago            xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx    [PATCH v3 0│
│13     9 hours ago            xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx     ├─>[PATCH │
│14     9 hours ago            xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx     ├─>[PATCH │
|15     9 hours ago            xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx     ├─>[PATCH |
│16     9 hours ago            xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx     ├─>[PATCH │
│17     9 hours ago            xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx     └─>[PATCH │
│18     2022-08-23 01:23:51    xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx    [RFC v4 00/│
│19     2022-08-23 01:23:52    xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx     ├─>[RFC v4│
|20     2022-08-30 10:30:16    xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx     │ └─>     |
│21     6 days ago             xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx     │   └─>   │
│22     2022-08-23 01:23:53    xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx     ├─>[RFC v4│
.Ed
.Bd -ragged
.Sy Compact view\&.
.Ed
.Bd -literal -offset center
│18  2022-…:38  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx  [PATCH v3 3/3] u…_l() (2)   │
|19  2022-…:49  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx  [PATCH v8 0/7] A…e (3)      |
│20  2022-…:10  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx  [PATCH v8 2/7] f…s (2)      │
│21  2022-…:38  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx  [PATCH v8 3/7] b…s (2)      │
│22  2022-…:53  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx  [PATCH v6 00/10] p…g (31)   │
.Ed
.Bd -ragged
.Sy Conversations view\&.
.Ed
.Bd -literal -offset center
│[PATCH v2] xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx (5)  │
|1 day ago▁▁▁▁xxxxxxxxxxxxx <xxxxxxxxxxxxx@xxxxxxxxxx>, xxxxx│
│                                                            |
│[PATCH v2 0/8] xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx│
│1 day ago▁▁▁▁xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx <xxxxxxxxxx@xxxxxxxxxxxxxx>, xx│
|                                                            │
│[PATCH 0/2] xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx (4)    |
│2 days ago▁▁▁▁xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx <xxxxxxxx@xxxxxxxxxxx>, xxxxx│
│                                                            │
│[PATCH 0/8] xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx (12)  │
│2 days ago▁▁▁▁xxxxxxxxxxxxx <xxxxxxxx@xxxxxxxxxx>, xxxxxxxxx│
.Ed
.sp
.sp
.Sy Performing actions on entries and/or selections\&.
.Pp
Press
.Shortcut v listing select_entry
to toggle the selection of a single entry.
.Qq select_entry
can be prefixed by a number modifier and affixed by a scrolling motion (up or down) to select multiple entries.
.Tg number-modifier
Simple set operations can be performed on a selection with these shortcut modifiers:
.sp
.Bl -hyphen -compact
.It
Union modifier:
.Shortcut Ctrl-u listing union_modifier
.It
Difference modifier:
.Shortcut Ctrl-d listing diff_modifier
.It
Intersection modifier:
.Shortcut Ctrl-i listing intersection_modifier
.El
.Pp
To set an entry as
.Qq read
\&, use the
.Shortcut n listing set_seen
shortcut.
To set an entry as
.Qq unread
\&, use the command
.Command set unseen
.sp
which also has its complement
.Command set seen
.sp
action.
.Pp
For e-mail backends that support tags
.Po
like
.Qq IMAP
or
.Qq notmuch Ns
.Pc
you can use the following commands on entries and selections to modify them:
.Command tag add TAG
.Command tag remove TAG
.sp
(see
.Xr meli.conf 5 TAGS Ns
, settings
.Ic colors
and
.Ic ignore_tags
for how to set tag colors and tag visibility)
.Sh PAGER
You can open an e-mail entry by pressing
.ShortcutPeriod Enter listing open_entry
\&. This brings up the e-mail view with the e-mail content inside a pager.
.Bd -literal -offset center
┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│Date: Sat, 21 May 2022 16:16:11 +0300                      ▀│
│From: Narrator <narrator@example.com>                      █│
│To: Stanley <427@example.com>                              █│
│Subject: The e-mail ending                                 █│
│Message-ID: <gambheerata@example.com>                      █│
│                                                           █│
│The story, and the choices, or what have you, and therefore█│
│by becoming it is! So on and so forth, until inevitably, we │
│all until the end of time. At which time, everything all at │
│once, so now you see? Blah, blah, blah, rah, rah, rah...    │
│We've eaten too much and it can't be just yet. No, no!      │
│Until two-hundred and forty-five! But the logic of          │
│elimination, working backwards, the deduction therefore     │
│becomes impossible to manufacture. It went on for nearly    │
│ten thousand years, until just yesterday. Here and there,   │
│forward and back, and never a moment before lunchtime. It   │
│can't be! It's the only thing there is! How many billions   │
│left until so much more than forever ago! Which is why I    │
│say:                                                        │
│                                                            │
│The story, and the choices, or what have you, and therefore │
│by becoming it is! So on and so forth, until inevitably, we▄│
└────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
.Ed
.Bd -ragged -offset 3n
.Em The\ pager\ displaying\ an\ e-mail\&.
.Ed
.Pp
The pager is simple to use.
Scroll with the following:
.Bl -hang -width 27n
.It Go to next pager page
.Shortcut  PageDown pager page_down
.It Go to previous pager page
.Shortcut PageUp pager page_up
.It Scroll down pager.
.Shortcut j pager scroll_down
.It Scroll up pager.
.Shortcut k pager scroll_up
.El
.sp
All scrolling shortcuts can be prefixed with a number modifier
.Tg number-modifier
which will act as a multiplier.
.Pp
The pager can enter a special
.Em url
mode which will prefix all detected hyperlinks and e-mail addresses with a number inside square brackets
.ShortcutPeriod u pager toggle_url_mode
\&.
Writing down a chosen number as a number modifier
.Tg number-modifier
and pressing
.Shortcut g envelope_view go_to_url
will attempt to open the link with the system's default open command
.Po
.Xr xdg-open 1
in supported OSes,
and
.Xr open 1
on MacOS
.Pc Ns
\&.
To override with a custom launcher, see
.Qo
.Li pager
.Qc
configuration setting
.Qo
.Li url_launcher
.Qc
.Po
see
.Xr meli.conf 5 PAGER
for more details
.Pc Ns
\&.
.Sh MAIL VIEW
Other things you can do when viewing e-mail:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
Most importantly, you can exit the mail view with:
.Shortcut i listing exit_entry
.It
Add addresses from the e-mail headers to contacts:
.Shortcut c envelope_view add_addresses_to_contacts
.It
Open an attachment by entering its index as a number modifier and pressing:
.Tg number-modifier
.Shortcut a envelope_view open_attachment
.It
Open an attachment by its
.Xr mailcap 4
entry by entering its index as a number modifier and pressing:
.Shortcut m envelope_view open_mailcap
.It
Reply to envelope:
.Shortcut R envelope_view reply
.It
Reply to author:
.Shortcut Ctrl-r envelope_view reply_to_author
.It
Reply to all/Reply to list/Follow up:
.Shortcut Ctrl-g envelope_view reply_to_all
.It
Forward email:
.Shortcut Ctrl-f envelope_view forward
.It
Expand extra headers: (References and others)
.Shortcut h envelope_view toggle_expand_headerk
.It
View envelope source in a pager: (toggles between raw and decoded source)
.Shortcut M-r envelope_view view_raw_source
.It
Return to envelope_view if viewing raw source or attachment:
.Shortcut r envelope_view return_to_normal_view
.El
.Sh COMPOSING
To compose an e-mail, you can either start with an empty draft by pressing
.Shortcut m listing new_mail
which opens a composer view in a new tab.
To reply to a specific e-mail, when in envelope view you can select the specific action you want to take:
.sp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
Reply to envelope.
.Shortcut R envelope_view reply
.It
Reply to author.
.Shortcut Ctrl-r envelope_view reply_to_author
.It
Reply to all.
.Shortcut Ctrl-g envelope_view reply_to_all
.El
.sp
To launch your editor, press
.ShortcutPeriod e composing edit
\&.
To send your draft, press
.ShortcutPeriod s composing send_mail
\&.
To save the draft without submission, enter the command
.Command close
.sp
and select
.Qq save as draft Ns
\&.
You can return to the draft by going to your
.Qq Drafts
mailbox and selecting
.ShortcutPeriod e envelope_view edit
\&.
.Bd -literal -offset center
┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ mail▐  contact list  ▐  composing  ▍███████████████████████│
│          COMPOSING MESSAGE                                 │
│           Date     Mon, 05 Sep 2022 17:49:19 +0300         │
│           From     myself <myself@example.com>░░░░         │
│           To       friend <myfriend@example.com>░░         │
│           Cc       ░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░         │
│           Bcc      ░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░         │
│           Subject  This is my subject!░░░░░░░░░░░░         │
│                                                            │
│          Hello friend!░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░         │
│          ░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░         │
│          ░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░         │
│                                                            │
│          ☐ don't sign                                      │
│          ☐ don't encrypt                                   │
│          no attachments                                    │
│                                                            │
│NORMAL | Mailbox: Inbox, Messages: 25772, New: 3006         │
└────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
.Ed
.Bd -ragged -offset 3n
.Em The\ lightly\ highlighted\ cells\ represent\ text\ input\ fields\&.
.Ed
.sp
If you enable the embed terminal option, you can launch your terminal editor of choice when you press
.Ic edit Ns
\&.
.Bd -literal -offset center
┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ mail▐  contact list  ▐  composing  ▍███████████████████████│
│   ╓COMPOSING MESSAGE┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄╖   │
│   ║ p/v/f/h/5/T/m/07f56b6e-ec09-49d9-b8d8-f0c5a81e7826 ║   │
│   ║  7 Date: Mon, 05 Sep 2022 18:43:10 +0300           ║   │
│   ║  6 From: Mister Cardholder <mrholder@example.com>  ║   │
│   ║  5 To:                                             ║   │
│   ║  4 Cc:                                             ║   │
│   ║  3 Bcc:                                            ║   │
│   ║  2 Subject:                                        ║   │
│   ║  1 User-Agent: meli 0.7.2                          ║   │
│   ║8 █                                                 ║   │
│   ║~                                                   ║   │
│   ║~                                                   ║   │
│   ║~                                                   ║   │
│   ║~                                                   ║   │
│   ║ N…  <6e-ec09-49d9-b8d8-f0c5a81e7826   100% ㏑:8 ℅:1║   │
│   ╚════════════════════════════════════════════════════╝   │
│                                                            │
│                                                            │
│ ☐ don't sign                                               │
│ ☐ don't encrypt                                            │
│ no attachments                                             │
│                                                            │
│EMBED | Mailbox: Inbox, Messages: 25772, New: 3006          │
└────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
.Ed
.Bd -ragged -offset 3n
.Bf -emphasis
.Xr neovim 1 Ns
\ running\ inside\ the\ composing\ tab\&.
.Ef
The\ double\ line\ border\ annotates\ the\ area\ of\ the\ embedded\ terminal,
the\ actual\ embedding\ is\ seamless\&.
.Ed
.Ss composing mail commands
.Bl -tag -width 36n
.It Cm add-attachment Ar PATH
in composer, add
.Ar PATH
as an attachment
.It Cm add-attachment < Ar CMD Ar ARGS
in composer, pipe
.Ar CMD Ar ARGS
output into an attachment
.It Cm add-attachment-file-picker
Launch command defined in the configuration value
.Ic file_picker_command
in
.Xr meli.conf 5 TERMINAL
.It Cm add-attachment-file-picker < Ar CMD Ar ARGS
Launch command
.Ar CMD Ar ARGS Ns
\&.
The command should print file paths in stderr, separated by NULL bytes.
.It Cm remove-attachment Ar INDEX
remove attachment with given index
.It Cm toggle sign
toggle between signing and not signing this message.
If the gpg invocation fails then the mail won't be sent.
See
.Xr meli.conf 5 PGP
for PGP configuration.
.It Cm save-draft
saves a copy of the draft in the Draft folder
.El
.\" [ref:TODO]: add contacts section
.Sh THEMES
See
.Xr meli-themes 5
for documentation on how to theme
.Nm Ns
\&.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr meli 1 ,
.Xr meli.conf 5 ,
.Xr meli-themes 5 ,
.Xr xdg-open 1 ,
.Xr mailcap 5
.Sh AUTHORS
Copyright 2017-2022
.An Manos Pitsidianakis Mt manos@pitsidianak.is
Released under the GPL, version 3 or greater.
This software carries no warranty of any kind.
(See COPYING for full copyright and warranty notices.)
.Pp
.Lk https://meli.delivery
.Lk https://github.com/meli/meli
.Lk https://crates.io/crates/meli
